We’re so happy to have you join us again
here on JW Broadcasting®.
In the next hour,
we’ll talk about how to become
a better teacher of God’s Word.
And we’ll also join Dilan and Isaac
for some candid talk
about the peer pressure
they faced in high school.
We’ll see an interview with Maria Kaloyanoff,
who smuggled hundreds of pieces
of Bible literature
into Communist Europe
during the 1960’s.
What motivated this young mother
to risk imprisonment again and again?
And we’ll enjoy a beautiful new music video
that highlights how much Jehovah appreciates
the quality of our sacrifices,
even if we’re limited in what we can do.
This is the August 2023 edition
of JW Broadcasting.
How important is the use of illustrations?
Are they simply fluff in our teaching?
One definition of the English word “fluff”
is this:
“something essentially trivial
and lacking importance or solid worth.”
Are illustrations trivial
and of little worth?
Please follow along on-screen
as I read our theme scripture,
Matthew 13:34:
“All these things Jesus spoke to the crowds
“by illustrations.
“Indeed, without an illustration
he would not speak to them.”
We often call Jesus the Great Teacher.
Illustrations were essential
to fully grasp what was being taught.
Now, we won’t be spending a lot of time
on the dos and don’ts of using illustrations.
Insight on the Scriptures
has a whole topic on “Illustrations.”
And the Apply Yourself
to Reading and Teaching  brochure
has some helpful suggestions in lesson 8.
Let me remind you, also,
of a talk that Brother Splane
of the Governing Body gave
at the 2020 regional convention.
The title was “Improve Your Skills
—Illustrating Key Points.”
It had some very practical suggestions,
which I won’t be repeating here,
so perhaps you’ll want
to review Brother Splane’s talk
in an upcoming family worship.
At times, the Bible
actually identifies Jesus’ expression
as an illustration;
most of the time,
it does not.
It was just part of the way
he spoke naturally;
illustrations flowed from him.
Well, how did he come up with them
so readily?
Jesus was observant
of what was happening around him.
We too can be observant.
This will help to train us
to think in illustrations.
The bread and the wine used
at the Memorial of Christ’s death
beautifully represented
Jesus’ perfect body and blood
that would be given
in behalf of sinful mankind.
But we can learn something
about our use of illustrations
by considering the circumstances
of the Lord’s Evening Meal.
Think about it:
From years of attending,
Jesus knew what was going to be
on the Passover table that night.
So he could’ve thought in advance
of using those emblems in that way.
We don’t know for sure.
But what a simple, logical,
and indelible impression it made that night
and continues to make on millions of us
some 2,000 years later!
If we’re going to give
a talk or demonstration
at one of our meetings,
we already know the topic.
So we have the luxury of thinking
of an illustration in advance.
But what if we’re teaching a Bible student
and he asks us an unexpected question?
At that moment,
you’ll likely mentally consider your student
—what you know about his work, his hobbies,
or just his daily life experiences—
and an illustration may come to your mind
on the spur of the moment.
Well, let’s see how that latter process
(an unexpected situation)
was faced by Jesus.
In this case,
we can understand his thought process
in coming up with masterful illustrations.
John chapter 4 is the account
about the Samaritan woman at the well.
At John 4:34,
Jesus used the illustration of food.
He said there:
“My food is to do the will of him who sent me
and to finish his work.”
That’s a simple, effective illustration.
Why might he have used
the generic expression “food”
instead of something more specific
like “my wine” or “my bread
is to do the will of him who sent me”?
Well, let’s look at the context.
Interestingly, in quick succession,
Jesus used two different illustrations.
And in both cases,
it seems from the context
that he came up with these
based on what was happening at the time.
John 4:7 says:
“A woman of Samaria came to draw water.
Jesus said to her: ‘Give me a drink.’”
Well, that’s setup number one
for an illustration about water.
Verse 8 says:
“For his disciples had gone off
into the city to buy food.”
That’s setup number two
for an illustration about food.
Now, Jesus didn’t orchestrate all of this
in advance.
It was just circumstantial
that Jesus asked a woman
who approached with a water jar
to give him a drink.
But Jesus instantly thought of and used
the subject of water as an illustration.
Verse 10 says:
“If you had known of the free gift of God
“and who it is who says to you,
“‘Give me a drink,’
“you would have asked him,
and he would have given you living water.”
The illustration was spontaneous.
It effectively led
to a fine witness about Jesus.
Now, in illustration number two,
look in verse 27.
Jesus is still talking to the woman
when the disciples return from the city.
Do you remember that verse 8 said
the disciples had gone
“into the city to buy food”?
So they come back,
and they have some food for Jesus.
Going to verse 28, the woman leaves.
Notice what the disciples now say to Jesus,
which is a setup for illustration number two
—not water, but food now becomes
the topic of conversation.
Verse 31:
“Meanwhile, the disciples were urging him:
‘Rabbi, eat.’”
The word “eat” caused Jesus
to think of the now famous illustration
that we quote regularly.
Verse 32:
“But he said to them:
“‘I have food to eat
that you do not know about.’”
Well, the disciples are puzzled.
Verse 33:
“So the disciples said to one another:
“‘No one brought him anything to eat, did he?’
“Jesus [picking up on the topic at hand]
said to them:
“‘My food
is to do the will of him who sent me
and to finish his work.’”
Now obviously,
Jesus did not choreograph
all this in advance.
But based on the circumstances at hand,
he came up with illustrations that worked.
Well, in what way?
Well, what’s the point of similarity
between God’s will and food?
Eating good food is enjoyable.
It’s satisfying!
The point?
Jesus enjoyed doing God’s will.
It was satisfying to him
—like eating a tasty meal.
Another point of similarity
is that food invigorates a person.
Jesus was invigorated
by that conversation
with the Samaritan woman.
Now glance back up in verses 3-6.
It says that Jesus had “left Judea” on foot.
Look in verse 6:
“Now Jesus,
“tired out as he was from the journey,
“was sitting at the well.
It was about the sixth hour.”
However,
after witnessing to the woman at the well,
Jesus is invigorated.
He even alluded to the idea
that the experience
was more energizing than literal food.
What have we learned thus far
from the process?
If you know beforehand
what will be discussed,
that gives you the opportunity
to think of an appropriate illustration
in advance.
If something comes up unexpectedly,
often you can use
what you’ve observed around you
or what you already know
to generate an effective illustration.
You might be thinking:
‘Uh, I’m not really creative.
‘It takes a while
for me to think up an illustration,
‘even when I know in advance
that I have an assignment at the meeting.
‘On-the-spot illustrations?
‘It’s probably not going to happen for me
with the way my brain works
or doesn’t work.’
Is there a way to train the brain
to think in illustration mode?
Yes.
How?
One way is by observing creation
or man-made inventions,
even when you don’t have a talk to give
and even when your children
are not with you.
Think about what you observe,
and reason out how it could be applied
as a teaching lesson in the future.
Write it down if you need to
so as to remember it.
One father told me that even when
his children were not with him,
he would look at creation
and come up with a line of reasoning
that might be helpful in the future.
He gave an example.
He observed two kittens playing together.
He reasoned:
“Do those kittens look happy?
“Yes.
“If Jehovah knows what it takes
“to make two kittens happy,
“do you think he knows
what it would take to make you happy?”
Well, obviously, a child would agree.
“So if Jehovah knows what it would take
to make you happy,
what should you do if Jehovah says
to do something a certain way?”
Profound, Dad!
Do it Jehovah’s way
if you want to be happy.
Now the beautiful reality,
the golden moment,
was when he saw one of his sons
watching two squirrels
in a tree chasing each other.
He used the squirrels as his illustration,
along with the prepared line of reasoning.
Now his son still remembers that point
many decades later.
Jesus’ brain thought creatively
when using illustrations.
For another example,
please turn with me to John 1:42.
Jesus changed Simon’s name on the spot.
John 1:42:
“And he [Andrew] led him [Simon] to Jesus.
“When Jesus looked at him, he said:
“‘You are Simon, the son of John;
“you will be called Cephas’
(which is translated ‘Peter’).”
Now, why did Jesus change his name
to Cephas, or Peter?
It actually seems to be creative thinking.
The Greek word for Peter is Peˈtros,
not Peˈtra.
Peˈtra  means “Rock Mass,”
and that applies to Jesus, the cornerstone,
the head of the Christian congregation.
However, Peˈtros  means “A Piece of Rock.”
What a beautiful description of Peter!
At times, Peter didn’t seem to be dependable.
But Jesus saw good qualities in him
and gave him the name Peter
(Peˈtros, Piece of Rock).
In effect,
Jesus was saying
that he would become as stable as a rock.
And that’s precisely what transpired.
What a great word picture,
or illustration, by Jesus!
At Revelation 1:1,
under inspiration to John,
Jehovah said that that book of the Bible was
“a revelation by Jesus Christ,
which God gave him.”
The Insight  book says:
“The book of Revelation
concludes the Holy Scriptures
“with one
of the most outstanding concentrations
of illustrations found in the entire Bible.”
You recall our theme is from Matthew 13:34:
“Without an Illustration
He Would Not Speak to Them.”
As another example,
Jesus gave his famous Sermon on the Mount.
In Matthew chapter 7,
the last chapter of that sermon,
he used at least ten different illustrations.
Yes, “without an illustration
he would not speak to them.”
Matthew 7:28
sums up the Sermon on the Mount, saying:
“When Jesus finished these sayings,
“the effect was that the crowds were astounded
at his way of teaching.”
First Peter 2:21 says that Jesus left
“a model for [us]
to follow his steps closely.”
That includes his art of teaching,
which incorporated
extensive use of illustrations.
They were pithy and to the point.
May each of us train ourselves
to think that way
and strive to improve our teaching skills
by means of illustrations.
Jesus was able to reach hearts
not only by means
of his teaching skills
but also because of his
outstanding qualities.
Think of his empathy.
His compassion and fellow feeling
just drew people to him like a magnet.
What role
can our empathy and fellow feeling play
as we preach to others
in this loveless world?
Take a look at the following dramatization.
Here, an everything bagel with cream cheese
and a large latte—€8,50.
Uh, I think I forgot my purse.
Not my problem.
Come on. I’m here all the time.
I’ve been waiting forever.
And yet still not my problem.
Are you serious?
I can bring you the money after work.
Next customer!
Sorry, how much was her order?
€8,50.
Oh, I’ve got it.
And could you add a regular coffee with cream?
Fine—€12 even.
Do I know you?
Nope. I just wanted to help.
Thank you.
Of course.
How can I get your money to you?
Ah, don’t worry about it.
OK. Thank you!
Thanks.
But if you’d like a little something
encouraging to read on your way to work,
you might enjoy this.
I don’t believe in God.
May I ask why?
I just don’t.
But thanks again. You’re very sweet.
Mhm.
Mhm. OK.
How many years in the camp?
Eleven.
Will anyone else in your family
be requesting resettlement?
No.
Why?
They are all dead
—killed.
I need a copy of your identity card.
Hey, I saw your . . .
No! We don’t hire foreigners!
You ruined your country;
don’t come here and ruin ours!
Get out!
Never underestimate the power of empathy!
Even the smallest gesture
of kindness on our part
can lead to someone
opening their heart to the truth.
The video also taught us something else.
The ministry, in all of its forms,
can have a cumulative effect
on a person’s heart,
softening it over time
to accept the Kingdom message.
Of course, we have empathy
not only for those in the field
but also for our own brothers and sisters
—and that includes our young ones.
Day after day,
they have to deal
with peer pressure at school,
and it’s intense.
Take it from Dilan and Isaac.
They share their stories
in this episode of My Teen Life.
I went to a vocational school
where I was able to fast-track
learning a trade.
Unexpectedly,
I finished at the top of my class.
After that, my teachers and my classmates
started to expect a lot more from me.
They were saying: “You’re doing so well.
“You represent the school.
“You will have to work hard.
“You’ll do great things.
You’ll go far.”
They were constantly putting pressure on me
to go for higher education
and to go to university.
There was this girl
in high school who was my age.
She was very friendly.
She always paid attention to me;
she was a nice person.
I also thought she was cute.
My classmates were like: “Go, talk to her!”
or “Hey, Isaac,
do you know that she likes you?”
And so I wasn’t sure what to do.
Of course, when I chose to go to that school,
higher education wasn’t the reason.
I wanted to fast-track getting a trade
and starting a job
so that I could earn my income.
That’s what I thought.
It was a really difficult time for me.
I remember praying to Jehovah
in tears for hours.
I didn’t ask for advice,
didn’t talk to friends
or people I trusted about it,
not even my parents.
And little by little, I started to give in
to that pressure that I got
because of this girl.
In the end,
we started to flirt with each other.
We chatted and sent each other messages.
When I prayed to Jehovah,
I didn’t feel completely comfortable.
I thought, ‘If I’m not doing what Jehovah
is asking of me,
‘if I’m not behaving how Jehovah
expects me to behave,
then how can I expect him to listen
to my prayers or even consider them?’
My family never told me to go
or not to go to university,
but they reminded me of Jehovah’s thinking.
My dad read Proverbs 27:11 to me.
What I was doing was a barrier
between me and Jehovah.
He helped me see
that the decisions I make as a teenager
affect Jehovah.
At that time, there were many videos,
articles, and publications about this topic.
Reading experiences of those
who went through similar things,
doing personal study on the subject,
and talking with spiritually mature brothers
while in the ministry
was very helpful for me.
Something that my parents did
that helped me a lot
was that they used the book
Young People Ask  in our family study.
And there’s a chapter
that talks about peer pressure.
Afterward, I was able to cope.
What helped me the most
was something I heard at a circuit assembly.
The speaker said in his talk:
“Yes, our young people
“have a lot of challenges right now.
“And when it comes to higher education,
“maybe their classmates and teachers
are pressuring them.
“But you young people
(it felt like he spoke to me personally),
“your teacher or classmate might not even be
“part of your life in the future.
“But if you want Jehovah
always to be in your life,
then you need
to make your decisions accordingly.”
It was like a light went on in my head.
Now I was sure about what I needed to do.
I had to speak to her.
One day, I prayed to Jehovah
and got up the courage.
I told her that it couldn’t continue with us.
Of course, explaining that to my classmates
and to my teachers was a little hard.
I mean,
it was difficult for them to understand.
Sure, I explained it, but they said,
“Why would you do that?”
For whoever is in the same situation
that I was in,
the best thing to do
is to talk to someone you trust,
tell them how you feel,
and ask for help.
Our Creator, Jehovah, is the one who thinks
about me and loves me most.
He hasn’t deprived me of anything good.
He always helps us and never leaves us.
I’m so grateful to Jehovah.
Dilan and Isaac both admitted
that the pressure they faced
was almost too much,
almost got the best of them.
What helped them turn the corner?
Isaac said that it was reaching out
and getting help.
If you’re facing similar pressures in school,
don’t keep it to yourself.
Talk to someone you trust
—that can open the door
to getting just the help you need.
Now we’d like to share
something special with you:
a recent discovery that has rewritten
a part of our theocratic history.
Enjoy the following story,
more than 80 years in the making.
Jehovah’s Witnesses love the Bible.
Long before taking on the monumental task
of Bible translation,
they acquired licenses
to print already existing translations
of the Bible.
And then in the 1950’s,
the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society
printed the first Bible
ever to be translated by Jehovah’s Witnesses
—the New World Translation
of the Holy Scriptures.
At least we thought it was the first Bible
ever to be translated by Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Well, in the fall of 2017,
the World Headquarters Museum Department
received a Bible donated
by a brother in Germany.
Accompanying the Bible was a letter referring
to a rare Bible printed in 1934
at Magdeburg, the location
of the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society’s
Germany Branch and printery at that time.
Little was known about this Bible,
and to those who did know of it,
it was thought of as something
unapproved by the then-president
of the Society, J.F. Rutherford.
By 1934, Adolph Hitler’s campaign
against Jehovah’s Witnesses
was well underway.
Our religious activities were banned,
65 tons of literature had been seized
and burned by Nazi authorities,
and the branch office and printery
at Magdeburg had already been confiscated
and released several times.
And this may explain why
the Magdeburger Bible
doesn’t have
a typical publishers’ page listing
of who published it, who translated it,
when and where it was printed.
But on the bottom of one of the last pages,
there is just one line in small letters,
and it reads:
“Printed: Watchtower Bible and Tract Society,
Magdeburg.”
Interestingly, on September 13, 1934,
the Ministry of the Interior
of the German government
granted permission for the Magdeburg office
to resume
the printing and distribution of Bibles.
However, everybody knew that the facilities
could be shut down again,
perhaps permanently, at any time.
What really could be accomplished
in the limited time they had?
The Magdeburg office informed Rutherford
that they had possession
of a New Testament manuscript
ready for printing and, additionally,
a translation of the Old Testament
was nearly complete.
In October 1934,
Rutherford approved
the printing of 100,000 copies.
But time was running out.
Brother Rutherford received
the following letter dated August 6, 1935,
and it says: “In the afternoon of July 10th
“a number of officials
of the secret Police of Berlin and Magdeburg
“appeared and sealed the factory,
“rooms and offices at Magdeburg,
closed all factory rooms,
“attached the property
“and money of the Society . . .
“Several thousand Bibles
“were just been bound
and the rest is printed.”
Sadly, only a small number
of those Bibles
actually made it out of the printery.
In November 2017,
after a careful search,
we were able to obtain three copies
of the Magdeburger Bible.
Little did we know what a treasured place
in our organization’s history
of Bible translation
and printing this Bible deserves!
It’s not a mere compilation
of existing translations
but a fresh, unique translation of the Bible.
Jehovah’s name is used extensively
in the text of the Hebrew Scriptures
as well as in footnotes
of the Christian Greek Scriptures.
The Magdeburger Bible was also
cited in German-language editions
of The Watchtower.
And nearly a century later,
the text can still be easily understood
by the German reader.
This Bible translation
truly has a remarkable story.
It’s print run was small
by normal Bible-printing standards,
and its distribution was even smaller.
And although it was produced in record time
and under highly dangerous circumstances,
its story
lay forgotten for decades
until it was rediscovered.
The Magdeburger Bible
is the first-known Bible
to be translated and published
by Jehovah’s Witnesses,
predating the New World Translation
of the Holy Scriptures.
It was able to survive in a time
of Nazi government opposition
and is now part of our
Bible Museum at Warwick.
This Bible truly is a testimony
to the words we find at Isaiah 40:8:
“Aber Jehovas Wort bleibt ewiglich!”
Not even the threat of Nazi oppression
stopped our brothers in Germany
from doing what they could
to make the Bible more available.
Why not?
Because as Jehovah’s Witnesses,
we love the Bible
and love teaching others about it.
But what does it take
to be a good teacher of God’s Word?
In a Morning Worship program,
Brother Geoffrey Jackson discussed
what we can learn from the apostle Paul
and how to reach the heart.
How would you define a good teacher?
That’s an interesting question, isn’t it?
For many of us,
perhaps we might answer by saying
what we think a good speaker is like.
We might say,
“The brother uses
many illustrations in his talk”
or “He was able to highlight a scripture
that I’ve read many times,
“and yet for the first time,
I’ve seen something interesting
in that that I’ve never seen before.”
Or perhaps we might say,
“He was able to keep my interest
right through the 60 minutes.”
Well, there are all sorts of different ways
we could say that someone is a good teacher.
Of course, the best compliment
someone could receive is if they’re told
that their teaching is similar
to that of Jesus Christ,
because we know he set
a wonderful example for all of us.
But as we’re
thinking about the qualifications
for someone to be a good teacher,
let’s turn our attention
to the words of the apostle Paul.
And if you turn with me, please,
to 1 Thessalonians 2:7, 8,
here we see, in addition to some
of the matters that we just discussed,
other aspects
or other qualities that are required
for someone
really to be an effective teacher.
So that’s 1 Thessalonians 2:7, 8:
“On the contrary,
we became gentle in your midst,
“as when a nursing mother
tenderly cares for her own children.
“So having tender affection for you,
“we were determined to impart to you,
not only the good news of God
but also our very selves.”
Do you notice
some of the qualities, or attributes,
here that the apostle Paul mentions
as being very important
with regard to our teaching?
In verse 8, it mentions “tender affection.”
So love is very much connected
with someone
having the ability to be a good teacher.
In fact, to reach the heart of the student,
we have to display love as well, don’t we?
Without reaching the heart
of the student we’re trying to teach,
it’s like enjoying a meal in a dream.
There really is no benefit at all.
So if we teach
but don’t reach the heart of the student,
then it really is
of very little value to the student.
Then looking on, notice it says that Paul
was “determined to impart”
not just the message of the good news
but his very self.
In other words,
he put his whole heart into teaching others.
But let’s look up at verse 7.
Now, I feel quite confident
in saying that probably none of us
would have listed this quality
as being essential for a good teacher.
How does he start?
“We became gentle in your midst.”
Now, honestly,
that probably isn’t the first quality
that would come to your mind
with regard to a teacher.
But what’s meant
by this expression to be “gentle”?
Well, one Bible scholar made this comment.
He said that this word
that’s translated “gentle”
“was frequently used by Greek writers
“as characterizing
a nurse with trying children
or a teacher with refractory scholars.”
Now, I had to look up the word “refractory”
and add it to my vocabulary.
It means, basically, “difficult to control,
resisting authority,
unmanageable, unresponsive.”
Well, do we see an interesting thought here?
This gentleness
has a firmness and stability about it
that isn’t rocked or shaken easily
by the negative response
of the one that’s being taught.
Isn’t that an interesting quality?
And no doubt we’ve all tried to display that,
perhaps as we’re trying to teach
someone something about the Scriptures
and come across the thought
that this person doesn’t really accept it.
We state the fact,
we show our scripture,
but they still may have a problem.
Well, how do we react?
You see, if we were to demand
that they accept what we say
because we said it
or because the Scriptures say it
without reasoning with that person,
then, really, we don’t have that gentleness
that the apostle Paul is referring to here.
So that stability under pressure
in a loving way convinces someone
of something that perhaps
they’re not so responsive to.
Doesn’t that open our minds
to another aspect
of what is involved with good teaching?
Now, by contrast, if we look back
at 1 Thessalonians chapter 2,
we’ll see that the apostle Paul
in verses 5 and 6
gives us a contrast about the type of things
that we wouldn’t want to do as a teacher.
Let’s read that in verses 5 and 6:
“In fact, you know that we never
used flattering speech
“or put on any false front
with greedy motives;
“God is witness!
“Nor have we been seeking glory from men,
“either from you or from others,
though we could be
an expensive burden as apostles of Christ.”
So, what are these negative things
that we certainly would want to avoid
if want to be an effective teacher?
Well, notice that first one,
“flattering speech.”
Now, this reminds us of another scripture.
Let’s turn across to Proverbs 28:23,
and this is a good reminder for all of us.
It says: “Whoever reproves a man
“[or corrects his thinking]
“will afterward find more favor
than someone who flatters with his tongue.”
Do we see the point that is being made there?
That flattery is not really an effective way
for us to gain someone’s confidence,
but, rather, it’s by honestly correcting
the thinking of someone else.
So with our Bible students or whatever level
of teaching that we’re doing,
we need to remember
that part of the process of teaching involves
giving counsel or direction
in correcting wrong viewpoints.
For us not to do that in a loving way
really shows that we don’t love
the person properly
because we don’t really want them
to change their wrong thinking.
So avoiding “flattering speech”
is very important.
Going back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 2,
what’s the second point that Paul mentions?
A “false front with greedy motives.”
So a false front is pretending
to be someone that you’re not.
So none of us would ever want to put across
a self-righteous viewpoint
to try to convince others
that we are holier than they are,
but as it says here,
it’s to not have that “false front.”
And then it mentions “greedy motives.”
You see, there’s a marginal reference
that takes us across to Acts 20:33.
There the apostle Paul says:
“I have desired
no man’s silver or gold or clothing.”
So certainly as a teacher of the good news,
we wouldn’t want to expect
some benefits or something
that would come back to us
by means of our teaching.
There the apostle Paul
sets a good standard for us.
And then in verse 6,
he said that he wasn’t
‘seeking the glory of men,’
or as one translation says,
“insisting on our own dignity.”
So it could be that if we’re a teacher,
we may feel that we deserve
a certain measure of respect.
Yes, our position
is a little higher than the student.
If we really feel that way deep inside,
that’s going to affect our attitude
with regard to being gentle, won’t it?
Because if someone questions what we say
or if it looks like they’re not dignifying us
in a proper manner,
then we will lose that firm gentleness
that helps correct the thinking of others.
Well, when we think about all these
various attributes and qualities
that are needed for us to be a good teacher,
perhaps we might feel
that there’s a lot we can work on, I’m sure.
I feel that way as well.
It’s a continual battle
—isn’t it?—for us to continue
to try to be effective teachers.
Here is one word of encouragement
we gain from the book of Philippians.
As a final scripture,
Philippians 2:13:
“For God is the one who for the sake
of his good pleasure energizes you,
“giving you both [notice] the desire
“[yes, so the desire
for us to impart the truth
“in a loving manner to others and then also]
and the power to act.”
So as we consider our teaching abilities,
don’t just think of techniques.
But always remember
that when we’re a good teacher,
we need to be gentle in the midst of others
and help them in a loving way
to correct wrong thoughts.
Like Jesus,
Paul put his whole heart into his teaching.
His concern for others moved him
to share the good news
with as many as possible.
In modern times,
many have shown that same spirit,
moving them to preach
even in the face of opposition.
One of those sisters is Maria Kaloyanoff.
So my mother was born
in the country of Bulgaria in 1922,
and in the early 1950’s,
my family emigrated
from Germany to the United States.
We settled in New York City,
and it was there that my mother
learned the truth.
That is the first time I opened a Bible.
I went and opened Revelation chapter 21.
But what hit me was the point
that there will not be sickness,
sorrow, and death anymore.
Anyone that comes into the truth
wants to share that with their family.
I had a desire,
really, to tell them the truth,
how they can get free
from oppression and sickness and death.
So she very much saw the need and desired
to have literature in the Bulgarian language.
She was able to ask the brothers in Brooklyn,
specifically offering if she could
translate some literature into Bulgarian.
The brothers approved for her to do that,
starting out with some of the tracts.
So Bulgaria was behind the Iron Curtain,
a Communist country.
Literature about God and the Bible
is not acceptable and banned,
so you can’t just mail it.
So as literature became available,
people have to take it in.
My family was one of those families
that volunteered to do that.
We traveled into Bulgaria by train.
We had a lot of luggage because every time
we would go to Bulgaria,
we stayed two and a half months.
That was the summer vacation.
In that luggage, in various places,
we put literature.
Traveling into a country
with banned literature
is not without its problems or dangers.
They knew that we had some literature,
and that was the tracts.
My mother realized
that we were going to be searched.
We had the ability
to take the literature
out of each luggage that we had hidden it in
and to put it into one small briefcase.
And what we couldn’t,
like unfolded tracts,
we put around our arm
with our overcoats over it.
I was only worrying about how I can
hide that literature so he cannot find it.
Because if he finds it,
then there really are consequences.
So as the guards would search
through the luggage,
they would rifle through it.
They didn’t straighten anything out,
so my mother quickly thought and asked them,
“Can I now go over there and straighten out
what you’ve messed up?”
And they said, “OK.”
I took my tracts,
which I had around my hand,
and I put them in the already
checked bag over there.
One of the guards gets to the point
that it’s my little briefcase.
He says,
“This is so small;
nothing could be in here!”
And he just takes it over there.
The man who was looking
was getting very nervous
because he knew we had something,
but he was not able to find it.
So in one trip years later,
my mother was on her own.
The officials at the border
of Bulgaria found literature.
They arrested her.
They put her in prison.
They interrogated her for two weeks
or more every day.
And in time,
the Bulgarian government changed their mind
and decided that as a foreign national,
they would just expel her from the country.
To this day,
my mother continues her spiritual routine
of worshipping Jehovah
—being at the meetings, preparing
for the meetings, reading her Bible,
and zealously sharing the truth with others.
It helps me practically
every minute in my life.
And I want to use my last bit of energy
to make his will known.
Once Sister Kaloyanoff
heard the Bible’s message,
she just had to share it
with those in her home country.
As she’s gotten older,
her circumstances have changed,
but not her determination.
She still wants to do whatever she can,
using her ‘last energy,’ as she put it,
to make God’s will known.
Do you have faithful ones
like Sister Kaloyanoff in your congregation?
Keep them in mind
as you enjoy this month’s music video.
It’s called Two Small Coins.
Two small coins
Are all that she can give.
As she waits,
The courtyard echoes with bountiful gifts.
Lost in the crowd,
Like a single grain of sand,
Will her Father take note
Of the two small coins in her hand?
No matter how small,
Don’t wonder at all,
‘Does he notice my sacrifice?’
It’s not hard to believe
If we see how he sees—
If we see
through Jehovah’s eyes—
Two small coins.
Would she have thought
Of all she’d given before—
Of easier times
When she had the means to give so much more?
She drops in her coins,
Unheard by others around.
But for Jehovah God,
This small gift made a thunderous sound.
No matter how small,
Don’t wonder at all,
‘Does he notice my sacrifice?’
It’s not hard to believe
If we see how he sees—
If we see
through Jehovah’s eyes—
Two small coins.
He looks far beyond
what you and I see.
He knows
who we really are underneath.
He sees
all we can be.
No matter how small,
Don’t wonder at all,
‘Does he notice my sacrifice?’
It’s not hard to believe
If we see how he sees—
If we see
through Jehovah’s eyes—
Two small coins.
Do you see
through Jehovah’s eyes?
What a beautiful reassurance
that no matter what our limitations may be,
our gifts have great value in Jehovah’s eyes!
For this month’s video postcard,
let’s travel to a land
of incredible scenic beauty
—New Zealand.
New Zealand is made up
primarily of two main islands
about 1,600 kilometers,
or more than 1,000 miles,
southeast of Australia.
On those islands,
you’ll find snowcapped mountain ranges,
crystal clear lakes,
miles of beaches,
and a sweeping coastline
with many harbors and fjords.
It’s also an area
of dramatic geothermal activity,
with active volcanoes, geysers,
bubbling mud pools,
and one of the largest hot springs
in the world,
the fittingly named Frying Pan Lake.
Residents of New Zealand
are often nicknamed “Kiwis”
—a nod to one of the country’s
most unique indigenous birds,
the long-billed and flightless kiwi.
The good news first reached New Zealand
in the late 1890’s
when one local reader
of the Watch Tower publications
started preaching on his own.
A few years later,
colporteurs from Australia
and the United States arrived,
and the good news began to spread.
The early Witnesses in New Zealand
were intrepid preachers,
crossing rugged terrain on foot, horseback,
and bicycle to reach remote towns.
One New Zealander
who became a zealous preacher
in those early days
was William Barry,
who read the six volumes
of Studies in the Scriptures  in 1909
and immediately recognized
he had found the truth.
He diligently taught the truth
to his children.
And in 1975,
his son Lloyd Barry
became a member of the Governing Body.
The truth has also spread quickly
among the Maori,
the indigenous people of New Zealand.
The first Maori-language convention
was held in 1928.
Today,
we have many Maori brothers and sisters
who enjoy sharing their rich culture
with others.
Altogether, there are now
more than 15,000 publishers in New Zealand,
preaching in 18 different languages,
including New Zealand Sign Language.
Here on the South Island
is the seaside town of Picton
—home to the Picton Congregation.
With a busy waterfront and ferry terminal,
Picton welcomes many tourists
and international workers,
so there are plenty of opportunities
for public witnessing.
To reach those living in homes
around the many bays of Picton,
the preaching work involves
using boats owned by brothers.
The 39 publishers and the pioneers
in the Picton Congregation
send their love and greetings.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is, yes, this is JW Broadcasting!